---
title: High-resolution memory-circuit and microstructural magnetic resonance Imaging-based biomarkers for identifying risk for Alzheimer's disease
layout: pagenonav
---
The goal of this study is to develop measurable indicators or biomarkers of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) risk using magnetic resonance imaging. Specifically, we seek to understand how structural changes in the hippocampus and its subfields and in the white matter can be used to reliably identify risk for AD. To do this, we will recruit and compare imaging data from healthy seniors, seniors suffering from mild cognitive impairment (a prodromal stage of AD), and seniors that have been recently diagnosed with AD. Furthermore, to validate our methods, we will compare our imaging biomarkers to well-known genetic risk factors for AD, such as APOE4. Lastly, cognitive measures will be taken for correlation analysis.

The goal of this study is to establish minimally invasive and automated techniques as alternatives to more invasive and costly AD biomarkers by applying novel MRI-based hippocampal subfield mapping techniques (Pipitone et al., 2014; Winterburn et al., 2013) and microstructural neuroimaging techniques previously developed by Dr. Chakravarty’s group to study brain regions known to degenerate in AD in 210 seniors who are healthy, have MCI, and mild AD (70 per group). We will use our technology to map, in unprecedented detail, the architecture of memory circuit regions known to be associated with the pathophysiology of AD (the hippocampus and its subfields, the alveus, fimbria, fornix, and the entorhinal, perirhinal, and parahippocampal cortices), as well as use measures of WM microstructures to measure the prevalence of WM lesions and integrity of brain myeloarchitectonics. Furthermore, we will explore the relationships between these neuroanatomical measures and well-known genetic risk factors such as the effects of APOE genotype in a subset of healthy controls, MCI and mild AD patients.
