---
title: Effects of normal and healthy aging on hippocampal subfield anatomy  
layout: pagenonav
---

In this study, we investigate if hippocampal morphology and volume are subject to change throughout the course of healthy aging, using recent advancements in subfield imaging developed in our lab. Individuals will undergo high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging, cognitive and neuropsychological testing, and collection of blood for genotyping. This study will provide an important neuroanatomical baseline for future hippocampal studies and could provide new insight to our understanding of healthy memory circuitry through the adult lifespan. 


A cross-sectional study involving the recruitment of 95 healthy individuals aged 18-80 years (at least two participants for every year of the adult lifespan) was conducted to assess hippocampal subfield changes associated with healthy aging. Individuals underwent high-resolution MRI scanning, cognitive testing, and collection of blood for genotyping. 
Recent methodological developments within our laboratory have addressed and can overcome the issues that existing protocols used to measure hippocampal subfields often fail at such as evaluating regions throughout the entire length of the hippocampus and grouping subfields together for simplicity and/or due to resolution difficulties. By combining the use of high-resolution MRI, a tracing protocol, and novel fully-automated algorithms that assess subfields along the entire length of the hippocampus (Winterburn et al., NeuroImage, 2013; Pipitone et al., NeuroImage, 2014), analysis of subfield structure can occur at an unprecedented level of detail and accuracy. 
In addition to invesigating age-related changes in hippocampal subfields, by combining subfield changes with cognitive testing measures, not only we will investigate whether certain subfields may be more vulnerable to tissue loss over the course of age but also investigate whether such changes are correlated with loss of cognitive function. Lastly, we will analyze the relationship between specific gene variants known to be implicated in healthy aging and their relationship with hippocampal morphology and function. Thus, results from this study may provide novel evidence for the association of certain regions important and implicated in healthy aging. Finally, the high-resolution images obtained from this cohort will be de-identified and made publicly available with the neuroscience community.
